I'm Rick Ballard,
and my associate Chris Hanson and
I are engineers on the Xcode team.
Today's presentation is going to give
you the basics that you need to work in
Xcode and go in-depth on some advanced
ways to customize your workflow.
Everything we talk about today is going
to revolve around one central concept:
schemes.
Whether your ambitions are world
domination or just a polished product,
you're going to need to
use schemes to get there.
In Xcode, Scheme is the object that
you use to perform the five
Scheme actions on your product:
run, test, profile,
analyze your source code,
and archive for distribution.
When you choose one of these actions,
Xcode will build the targets
needed to produce your product,
and then will perform the
chosen action on your product.
So, schemes are the tool that you
use to configure and perform
all your actions in Xcode,
and that's why it's the central
topic of today's presentation.
[Transcript missing]
Furthermore, a workspace allows implicit
dependencies to be resolved between
the targets in that workspace.
What an implicit dependency is,
is if you have one target
which links against a product,
and another target in a project in the
same workspace produces that product,
even if you haven't set up an
explicit dependency from the
first target to the second target,
Xcode will notice that the first target
does depend on the product of the second,
and will create an implicit
dependency for you.
That means that whenever
you build the first target,
Xcode will automatically build the
second target first to make sure
that its product is available.
There's one more important
thing to know about workspaces,
and that's even if you don't create an
explicit workspace document in Xcode,
every time you open up a
project and work with it,
you still have a workspace.
When you open up a standalone project,
Xcode creates an implicit workspace
for it behind the scenes and
actually stashes a workspace
file inside that project wrapper.
That means that when you work
with a standalone project,
you still have all the benefits
of working with a workspace,
and that includes a unique symbol index,
a unique location for build products,
and more.
Today, whenever I talk about a workspace,
you can assume that the same
thing applies if you're working
with a standalone project.
Let's talk a little bit about projects.
A project contains references
to your source files,
targets which process those source
files to produce your product,
schemes which cause those targets
to build and then perform actions
on the products of those targets,
and build configurations which collect
and organize your build settings.
By default, projects come with debug and
release build configurations,
and all the build settings in the
project and target are organized
into those build configurations.
If you need a new set of build
settings for some specific purpose,
you can always define a
new build configuration.
But for most of you,
you'll be able to get away fine
with just debug and release.
If you go to the project editor,
which you can get at by
selecting a project in the
project navigator on the left,
and then making sure that the
project is selected in the middle,
you can see the build configurations in
your project and add new ones as needed.
So let's talk about the
targets in your project.
A target is fundamentally the
instructions for building one product.
It references some or all of the
source files in your project,
and it contains build phases,
which are an ordered sequence of
steps that the target takes in
order to produce your product.
There are a set of build rules
that determine how the compile
sources build phase processes
the source files in the target.
And you have a set of build
settings which configure just about
every aspect of the build process.
Finally, every target can depend on
one or more other targets.
And if it depends on another target,
whenever the first target builds,
the dependent target will build first.
You can edit your target settings
by going to the project editor
and then selecting the target in
the middle that you want to edit.
The summary tab gives you some of the
most frequently accessed settings that
you want to change in your target.
If you select the Build Phases tab,
you can see the ordered set of
steps that the target is going
to take to produce your product.
So let's talk about a few of the tasks
you might want to accomplish here.
If you want to make your target
depend on another target,
you can do so in the
Target Dependencies phase.
If you click the plus button here,
you can add any dependent
targets from among other targets
in this target's project,
and other targets in projects
referenced by this target's project.
If you don't see the target
that you want to depend on here,
make sure that this target's project
references the project that contains
the target you want to depend on.
If you want to set
per-file compiler settings,
you can do that in the
compile sources build phase.
This phase also shows you all the source
files that your target is going to
process in order to produce your product.
If you want to make your product
link against a library or framework,
you do that in the link
binaries with libraries phase.
When you click the plus button,
you get to choose libraries to link from,
from among three sources.
First, you get all the libraries in the
SDK that this target links against.
Second, any libraries referenced by this
target's project are available.
And finally, any libraries in projects,
or produced by targets in projects
that this target's project
references are also available.
If you're producing a
framework or other library,
you may have headers that you
want to install into the product,
and you can do that in the
copy headers build phase.
There are three build roles here,
and by dragging your
headers between these roles,
you can configure what will
happen with each of these headers.
The public and private roles will
export these headers to the public
and private locations in your product,
and the project role means that
this header should not be exported
in your product and is only there
for the project when it's building.
If you have any resources, like artwork,
you can put them in a copy
bundle resources phase,
and the target will copy them
into the resources subdirectory
of your product when it builds.
If you need to copy any other
files into your product as
part of your build process,
you can define as many copy files
build phases as you want and
configure them to put your resources
wherever you want to put them.
Finally, if there's anything you want
to do that isn't covered by
these existing build phases,
you can create a run script build
phase and use that to do anything
you can do with the script.
All the target's environment or
build settings are exported as
environment variables to the script,
which helps you configure powerful
scripts that manipulate your products.
And you can define as many of
these script phases as you want and
drag them around to reorder them.
The Build Rules tab shows you the
set of built-in rules that tell
Xcode how to compile the sources
in your compile sources phase.
If you have any special sort
of source files that you need
to compile in a special way,
you can define a custom
build rule here to do so.
Now let's talk about the build
settings that control every
aspect of your build process.
In the Build Settings tab,
you'll see all the build settings
that are affecting the target.
And you'll notice that for
most of these build settings,
there's just a single value listed.
That means that all configurations
in this project have the same
value for this build setting.
Now some build settings
list multiple values,
one for each configuration.
For example, your optimization level,
well, you don't want to optimize
when you're building for debug,
but you do when you're
building for release,
so you have different values here.
If you want to set a per configuration
value instead of sharing a
value across all configurations,
you can hover over where the disclosure
triangle is next to the build setting,
and all your configurations
become available.
Furthermore,
if you hover over one of the buildings,
you can see that the configuration
level is set to the same value
as the configuration level.
If you want to set a per configuration
value instead of sharing a
value across all configurations,
you can hover over where the disclosure
triangle is next to the build setting,
and all your configurations
become available.
Furthermore, if you hover over one
of those configurations,
a plus button will show up,
which you can click to add per SDK or
per architecture build setting variants,
so those values would be used
specially only when building for,
say, a specific SDK.
There's another axis of configuration
to your build settings that's important,
and that's the build setting levels.
If you select the levels
bubble at the top,
Xcode will show you a view that
shows the hierarchy from which your
build settings are being inherited.
On the left is the resolved column,
and that shows you the final value
for each build setting that will be
used by this target when it builds.
To the right of that are all the
build setting values that you've
explicitly set at the target level,
and usually those will be
the resolved values too.
To the right of that are your
project-level build settings.
In the project editor,
there's also a build settings tab,
and any build settings you set
there will be inherited by all
targets in that same project,
unless those targets override
that build setting value.
Finally, on the right,
Xcode shows you the default value
for every build setting that will
be used if neither the target
nor the project overrides it.
You'll also notice that there are
some green bubbles in this view.
Those green bubbles show you
where each build setting's
final value is being taken from,
so you can quickly know
where to go to edit it.
So that's targets.
Let's talk a little bit
more about what a scheme is.
Schemes fundamentally have the
instructions for building your targets
and performing actions on them.
So schemes contain actions
for running your products,
and that includes running
them in the debugger,
running your tests,
profiling your product for performance,
statically analyzing your source code,
and archiving your products away,
which allows you to
distribute them later.
For each of these actions,
your scheme contains a specification
of the targets that the scheme should
build when performing that action.
You can get at your schemes in
the upper left-hand corner menu,
which is the Scheme pop-up.
When you pop this up,
you'll see a list of all the
shown schemes in this workspace.
And if you choose the Edit Scheme
option from this pop-up,
Xcode will bring down
the Scheme Editing Sheet,
which is where you go to configure
all the aspects of your scheme.
In the upper left-hand corner,
you can press the button to perform
one of your selected scheme actions.
And actually, handy tip:
if you hold down the Option key
and press this button,
Xcode will bring down the
scheme editing sheet for you,
which is sometimes a little faster than
choosing Edit Scheme from the menu.
If you hold down on this button,
you get four of the five scheme actions,
so you can change that button to be the
action that you're performing most often.
All five scheme actions are also
available in the Product menu.
Well, when you perform a scheme action,
you also need to tell Xcode
where to perform that action,
and that's the run destination.
Your run destination has three parts.
It incorporates the platform and
SDK that you want to build for,
the device that you want to run on,
and on the Mac only,
what architecture you want to target.
You can get at your run destinations on
the right-hand side of the scheme pop-up.
There you see all the run
destinations that are available
with the selected scheme.
What controls what run
destinations we put in that pop-up?
For the platform and SDK,
you get to choose among those in
platforms compatible with your
target's base SDK build setting,
supported platforms build setting,
and deployment target build setting.
For the device you want to run on,
you can choose among all the
plugged-in devices that are
configured for development,
all available simulators,
and the local Mac.
But you only get devices that are
compatible with your selected SDK.
Finally, on the Mac,
you can choose among architectures
that are available in your target's
architectures build setting,
but again, only architectures that are
compatible with the local Mac.
For all these build settings,
we actually look at every target
that's set to build for the scheme
and use the union of all run
destinations that are available for
the build settings for each target.
So that's about it for the
basic project concepts.
I'm going to invite my colleague
Chris up to go into depth with
you on the five scheme actions.
Thank you, Rick.
So as Rick described,
schemes support five main actions.
You can run your application
to test it either without the
debugger or under the debugger.
You can run your unit tests.
You can profile your
application's performance.
You can analyze its source code,
and you can archive it for distribution.
But you'll notice that
I didn't mention building.
Why not?
Well, a scheme builds targets,
but building isn't an action in itself.
Instead, it's a step that's typically
performed before each action.
You're always building with
a specific purpose in mind.
So the action to perform actually
affects how you decide to build,
how Xcode chooses which targets to build,
and which configuration
in which to build them.
Now, to preserve your muscle memory,
we have kept a build
command in the product menu,
but that build command is really just
an alias for "build for running."
You configure building in the
build pane of the scheme editor.
And you can see here that in the
bottom pane of the build pane,
the bottom table of the build pane,
I should say,
You can set both the targets to build and
what actions you wish to build them for.
So, for example,
if you have a unit test target,
typically you won't want to build
that for archiving because you're
not going to distribute your unit
tests on the Mac or iOS app store.
You can also configure
implicit dependencies,
which as Rick described,
allows Xcode to figure out among
all the projects in a workspace,
all the targets in a workspace,
which depend on each other
without you explicitly telling it.
And you can also tell Xcode
to parallelize your build to
maximize its use of your multi-core
Mac Pro that I'm sure you all have.
Now, in the build pane,
you don't actually choose a
configuration to build for.
Instead, you choose which configuration
to build for each action.
Here we're looking at the test pane,
and you can choose which configuration
to build for the test action.
Let's dive right into running.
When you run, you can choose which
executable you want to run.
Now, by default, Xcode will create your
scheme actions for you,
pre-configured for your application.
But if you're building a
different type of product,
like a plug-in for another application,
you'll want to actually choose which
application to use when running.
And similarly,
you might actually want to debug somebody
else's command line tool or something
that you've built from the command line.
And here this would allow you to create
a scheme and choose that to debug.
You can, of course,
choose which configuration you
want to build for debugging.
By default, Xcode will build for debug.
And you can choose which debugger
you actually want to use.
You can use the traditional GDB debugger,
you can use our new
LLDB low-level debugger,
or you can choose not to run
under the debugger at all,
which can be useful if you need to run
your new plugin for an application that,
say,
you can't attach to with the debugger.
You also can choose which arguments
to supply to your application or
command line tool that you're running.
Now, you'll typically want to do
this to supply sample data,
to set user defaults,
and generally to supply
additional information to your
application while testing it.
And to help prevent you from hard coding
all sorts of things in your schemes,
you can choose which target
in your scheme you want to
take build settings from.
Now you can actually refer to
build settings in your arguments
and environment variables that you
supply when you run your application
by using their all caps raw names.
And you just reference them using
a simple shell-like syntax with a
dollar sign and the all caps raw name
in curly braces or in parentheses
as if you were in a make file.
Now to see what the actual
all caps raw name is,
you can control click on the
build setting in the build setting
editor and choose show raw names,
or you can highlight it and just show the
utility area and look at the quick look,
quick look, I'm sorry,
quick help inspector.
That quick help inspector in the
upper right will show you some
documentation about the build setting,
as well as its all caps raw
name that you can use both
in shell script build phases,
like Rick described,
and in your arguments and
environment variables.
And here we've got one argument
to our application that
turns on some debug logging,
and I've just decided to
supply some sample data to this
application too for it to run with.
And that sample data
is located in my build.
And I'm going to use the
build products directory.
So rather than hard code the path
into the scheme for everybody who's
working on this project to see,
I'm using a build setting reference
so that it follows wherever my
build products happen to go.
And Rick will describe a little
bit more about that in a bit.
There are some options you can
set when running your application.
For Mac OS X, new and Lion,
you can choose whether or not to run your
application with its persistent state.
So if you have the production version
of your application on your system.
And you're actually doing work with it.
Lion is saving persistent
state about that application.
Well, you're probably not going to want
to use that when you're debugging
the new version of the application.
So you can enable this and
Xcode will tell the application
that while it's being debugged,
it should just ignore
its persistent state.
Now on iOS, new in iOS 5 with Xcode 4.2,
we have a couple of additional options.
You can choose which location or
location track you want to use when
you're testing your application.
You can just do this using
the locations pop-up,
which is pre-populated
with some common locations,
and which will also show any GPX files
that you have in your project.
And you can also pull some sample
data straight from an application
on a device out using the organizer,
put it in your project,
and then use it when you're
testing your application again,
simply by choosing it from this pop-up.
And finally,
we have some diagnostics that we
have shortcuts for in the run pane,
because we don't want you to
have to remember whether it's
NSZombieEnable or NSZombieEnabled,
or what the command line
argument for memory debugging is,
or how to turn on and off DYLD framework
and library loading information.
So you can just turn all these things
on and off with simple check boxes.
Xcode will supply the right
command line arguments and the
right environment variables to
your application when it runs it.
Now let's go into Xcode 4's
new unit testing support.
Xcode natively supports the OC unit,
Objective-C unit testing framework.
So this means your tests
are written in Objective-C.
That doesn't mean you
can't test C++ code,
too.
You can get the best of both
worlds just by writing your
unit tests in Objective-C++.
Use the Objective-C side to interface
with the unit testing framework,
and you can use the C++
side to test your C++ code.
And new in Xcode 4,
your unit tests are actually run right
under the debugger automatically.
This means that if you
enable breakpoints,
your unit tests will actually
hit breakpoints in the debugger
while they're being run,
so you can debug them much more easily.
There's no setup to do.
And finally, your test failures,
in addition to showing up in a test log,
will show up right as issues
in the issue navigator.
Of course,
there's a little bit of configuration
you can do with the test action.
In addition to choosing which
configuration you want to build
for your tests and which debugger
you want to run your tests under,
you can also choose which tests to run.
This can be really useful if
you only want to run one or
two of your tests in your,
I'm sure,
enormous unit testing suites while
you're getting them up and working.
And of course,
you might want to supply some arguments,
too.
By default, Xcode will actually use the
command line arguments that
you've set for the run action,
rather than making you specify them
all over again for the test action.
However,
if you do want to supply different
arguments for unit testing,
you can do so simply by
turning off that checkbox.
So let me show you a demo
of unit testing in Xcode 4.
So here I have a simple project.
It's just a Zip browser
application for Mac OS X.
It's based on the Zip
browser sample code.
And I have some unit tests
here in my new Zipkit library.
So to run my unit tests,
I'm just going to go to the
product menu and choose Test.
Xcode 4 builds my Zipkit library
and my Zip browser application,
and also my Zip tests.
And I can see that I have a test failure
right here in the issues navigator.
If I click on that test failure,
I go right to the source code,
and I see what test failed.
So let me see exactly what was going
on in this test that caused it to fail.
I'm just going to set a breakpoint.
and retest.
No more setting up a custom executable.
Here I'm stopped in the debugger,
and let me just take a look at what
root entry child entries actually is.
This is a little odd.
I'm saying that it should be nil,
but that it should have children.
So if I look in self, root entry,
child entries, oh,
it's an array with zero objects.
Maybe I actually meant that
it should not be nil here,
and this is just a typo.
I'm going to stop my tests.
Oops.
Say st assert not nil,
get rid of my breakpoint here,
rerun my tests,
and all my tests succeeded.
And now if I go and edit my scheme,
I can see in my test scheme here,
under my tests, I have two tests,
and these were automatically
discovered by Xcode's indexing.
I didn't have to tell
Xcode about my tests,
it just knew about them.
So now,
let's talk a little more about profiling.
And let's go back to slides.
Let's talk a little bit
more about profiling your
application for performance.
Obviously,
there's a little bit that you'll want
to configure when you're profiling
your application straight from Xcode.
And that includes, of course,
the build configuration
that you want to profile.
Now here, Xcode will default to profiling
your release configuration,
because typically,
you don't want to check the
performance of your debug code,
because you've put in all sorts
of logging and assertions,
and you're just,
you're really making sure that your
code is correct when you're debugging,
not that it's fast.
So you really want to do your,
you really want to do your profiling
using the release configuration.
And as a shortcut,
Xcode lets you select from
among your instrument templates
right in the profile action.
This means that when you choose
profile from the product menu in Xcode,
Xcode will go straight to instruments
and start running your application,
so there's no break in your workflow.
You can just decide to profile and go
straight into profiling without having
to configure instruments in between.
And of course,
you might want to supply some sample
data or some environment variables
when you are profiling as well.
And again, by default,
Xcode will just take
those from the run action,
but you can choose to override
what Xcode has decided for you.
Now,
we all use the LLVM static analyzer on
our code to make sure that our memory
management is correct and that we're not
making any other mistakes with respect
to Cocoa or core foundation idioms.
And we provide you a little bit of
control over the analyze action as well,
because you'll sometimes want to analyze
a build configuration other than debug.
For example,
you might want to occasionally analyze
your release build configuration just to
make sure that you haven't done something
silly like fix a memory leak as a side
effect of implementing some logging,
rather than actually fixing it in
the version of your code that's
going to be released to users.
And of course, in Xcode 4,
just as in Xcode 3,
when you actually encounter
an analysis issue,
You'll wind up with both an annotation
in your source code and an entry
in the issues navigator to make it
easy to find what you need to fix.
Now the final scheme action is archiving,
and this is how you
distribute your application,
whether you're distributing
it to end users or to testers.
And archiving is not just for iOS.
It's how you distribute your application,
whether it's for Mac OS X or iOS,
whether it's for the Mac App Store,
or whether it's something that you're
going to make available on your website.
It's how you share with testers,
and it's also how you can verify
your application prior to submission
to the iOS or Mac App Store,
and how you actually
submit your application.
So an archive itself is an XeArchive
bundle on disk that contains an
install-style build of your application.
What this means is that it's a fully
stripped version of your application with
no debugging symbols or anything else.
Instead, those symbols are off to the
side in another DSIM file.
So they're still around,
they're still in that archive,
and they can still be used to match
your application as it's deployed
in the field with your source code
that generated that application.
So when you get crash reports,
you can actually see what line of code
Each entry in your call stack
actually corresponds to,
instead of trying to puzzle it out from
memory addresses and things like that.
Your archive is also associated
with the verification status and
submission status of your application,
and you can supply your own comments too,
so you know what you were thinking
when you made that archive.
So to configure the archive action,
of course,
there's a pane in the scheme editor.
And by default,
Xcode is set up to archive
your release configuration.
We don't really do a release versus
a distribution configuration anymore
because the choices that were different
between release and distribution,
those can actually all be handled
in the archives organizer now.
And we have a checkbox that will
automatically take you straight
to the new archive that was
produced in the Archives Organizer
when you perform an archive.
To manage your archives,
you use the Archives Organizer, which,
as I said,
was brought up by this checkbox.
And here you can see I have a few
different versions of my Zip browser
application that I've archived.
But why did I do that?
Well, just like with your code,
use comments.
I've put in some comments
to say that I had,
okay, I have my first version
of my application,
it's the first draft,
I've got a couple of
intermediate versions,
and now I have the version
for the conference.
And then if I were going to
submit this to the App Store or
send it out for testing,
I would use the buttons
at the right to do that.
I would validate for submission,
I would share my application,
and I would submit it to the App Store.
Now,
when you go to share your application,
you have a choice of how
you want to share it,
as long as it's an application archive.
For iOS, you have the choice of
making an iOS IPA archive,
which you can use for ad hoc
or enterprise distribution,
and you can choose which signing
certificate you want to use
to actually generate that IPA.
And you can sort of do the
same for the Mac OS X side.
You can choose to make a macOS-- a
Mac App Store distribution package,
or you can choose to just extract
the raw application from the
archive and pass that around,
or you can choose to pass
around the archive itself.
And again, you have a choice of which
signing certificate to use
when you produce that archive.
Now, if you're going to
produce an application,
That's going to have to come
from an application archive.
An application archive is an archive
that only contains a single application.
It doesn't contain any
extraneous libraries,
frameworks, static libraries,
or anything else.
And this is really important because
an application archive is the
only kind of archive that can be
submitted to the Mac or iOS app store.
You can't submit an archive
that has anything else in it.
And to do that, if you are using any
libraries or frameworks,
whether you're doing
so for iOS or the Mac,
you'll want to turn on the skip
install build setting for those
library and framework targets.
Instead, your application should just
embed the library or framework
in itself when it builds.
Now,
that's really easy for static libraries
because that happens automatically.
There's nothing for you to configure.
Simply by using a static library,
it's incorporated into your application.
But for frameworks and dynamic
libraries on the Mac side,
you'll need to use a copy files
build phase to put them in the right
place in your application bundle.
Now, I'll bring back Rick,
and he'll tell you a little bit
more about how Xcode decides
what build locations to use.
Thanks, Chris.
So let's go over how to find
your build products and how
to configure where they go.
By default, every workspace,
as I told you before,
gets its own location for build products,
and that's in its derived data directory.
The derived data directory
contains all the derived
artifacts from your workspace.
So that's the symbol index,
your saved logs, and your build products.
This means, since every workspace has its
own derived data directory,
that by default,
your build products from different
workspaces don't get mixed together.
And that's really helpful because it
keeps each workspace from clobbering
each other's build products.
And in fact,
if you open a project in the context
of one workspace versus in another,
its build products will
go in different places.
So again, you maintain the build products
that you're using in one specific
workspace without it getting
clobbered by another one.
Now, we distinguish workspaces by
path when deciding which derived
data directory they should have.
That means if you say,
"Check out two copies of the same
workspace from different revisions
in your source control," since
each of those copies has to live
at a slightly different path,
each of them is going to get
its own derived data directory.
So those different versions
of your project aren't going
to stomp on each other.
If you look in your
derived data location,
you'll see a set of folders
with funny names in them.
Those are the derived data
directories that you have.
Each derived data directory
starts with the name of the
workspace that it belongs to,
and is then followed by a hash of the
path that that workspace lives at.
So if you move the workspace,
it'll get a new derived data directory.
If you want to, if these are building up,
you can delete these folders.
But if you do,
and then open up one of the
workspaces that corresponded to
a deleted derived data directory,
it'll have to re-index
all its symbols again.
It won't have any built
products and so forth.
So I'm going to give you a quick
demo now that shows you how easy
it is to find your build products,
even though they're off in
this derived data location now.
So there are three quick ways to do this.
The first way is if you go to the
project navigator and disclose
one of the products groups,
and you've built your product,
you'll see references
to your built products.
And you can just right-click on those,
choose Show in Finder,
and your built product is going
to come right up in Finder.
The second way is to go to the File menu
and choose the Workspace Settings option.
Or, if you're working with
a standalone project,
this option is called Project Settings.
This brings down the
Workspace Settings sheet,
and this gives you control over where
the derived data directory for this
workspace lives on a per workspace basis,
if you want to change that,
and where its build products go.
In addition,
when it lists the derived data directory,
there's a little arrow,
and if you just press this arrow button,
your derived data location
will come up in Finder.
The third way to get at your derived data
directory is to go to the Window menu,
choose the Organizer,
Bring up the Projects Organizer,
which will list all open
projects and workspaces,
and all projects and workspaces
that Xcode knows about by seeing
their derived data directory
in the derived data location.
And here it lists this
project's derived data,
or this workspace's derived data folder,
and again there's a little arrow.
I can press it,
and there's my derived data
directory for this workspace.
So that's how easy this is.
Let's go back to slides.
If you open Xcode's preferences and
go to the Locations preference pane,
you get some control over
where your derived data goes.
There's a derived data
location you can set,
in addition to being able to set where
your snapshots go and your archives go.
And there's also an advanced button here,
which gives you control over exactly
where your build products go,
if maybe you don't want them going
in the derived data directory.
You'll notice this pref pane
looks a little different,
and the workspace settings sheet I'm
about to show you a screenshot of
looks a little different than what
you have in the 4.1 and 4.2 seeds.
That's because this is the new
look for the Locations pref pane
and the workspace settings sheet,
and it's coming soon.
In the workspace settings sheet,
as I said,
you can change your derived data
directory on a per-workspace basis.
This is useful if, say,
you're a contractor and you're working
with some source code that has some
particular security requirements.
You need all artifacts from this project
to go in a particular secure location.
Well,
you can set that workspace's derived data
directory to be in that secure location,
and everything will be taken care of.
The Advanced button here-- oh, actually,
there's also a pop-up here,
which allows you to choose to
make your derived data location
project relative if you want.
And that's useful if you like having
your build products and other derived
data in next to your source code.
The Advanced button here
lets you configure exactly
where your build products go.
And there are a few different scenarios
I'm going to step through that should
dictate when you'd want to use this.
[Transcript missing]
You can also do this in Xcode's
location preferences if you want,
if you want every project
you ever work with,
by default,
to place its build products in
the same build products directory.
The third scenario is the few of you who
may have a complex external build system
that requires your build products to
go in very specific locations on disk.
Those locations may be controlled by
the build settings in your target.
There's a build products
path and a build intermediate
files path that lets you set,
on a per target basis,
exactly where your build products go.
And if you need to use these settings,
you can change your build location
to locations specified by targets.
That makes Xcode respect
these build settings.
And that means that your products
aren't going to go in your
derived data directory at all.
They're going to go in some location
specified on a per target basis.
Most of you don't need this,
but for those of you who do,
it's important to know
where to find this.
There's one more thing I'm
going to tell you about before
we move past build locations,
and that's one reason many people go and
find their build products in Finder today
is because they like to delete their
build products folder outright in Finder
instead of using the clean command,
both because the clean command
can take a little longer than just
deleting the folder and because you
want to make absolutely sure that
you've deleted all your build products
and haven't left any cruft behind.
Well,
we've made this a lot easier in Xcode 4.
In Xcode 4, if you have the products menu
up and you hold the option key,
the clean command turns into
a clean build folder command,
and if you select this,
Xcode will just instantly delete
your build folder for you.
So that's about all there is to
configuring your build locations.
Let's dive now into how to manage
your schemes effectively and
share them with your coworkers.
First thing you need to know about
schemes is when they're created.
Well, you can manually create them
yourself whenever you want,
but Xcode will actually create
them for you automatically
under a couple of situations.
First of all,
whenever you create a new target or
a new project that contains targets,
Xcode will create a scheme
for every new target.
And that scheme will be per user owned
by the user that created the targets.
Second of all, the first time you open
a project or workspace,
or if you open a project in workspace or
workspace and new targets have been added
by someone else since you last opened it,
Xcode will look at each of
those new targets and create a
scheme for every one of them.
And again, that scheme will be
per user owned by you.
Now, I said that you get a
scheme for every target,
every new target,
but that's not quite right.
Xcode will create a new scheme
for most types of targets,
like framework targets, library targets,
application targets.
But if you have any unit test targets,
and if those unit tests can identifiably
test some other target's product,
like say you have a test bundle
that tests your application,
instead of creating a separate
scheme for your unit test target,
Xcode will add that unit test target
to the test action of the scheme that
contains the target that the tests test.
So, for example,
to the test action of the scheme that
contains your application target.
Now,
if you create a new unit test target,
it won't be configured yet to
test some other target's product,
so you will get a new scheme
just for that test target.
That's probably not what you want.
You probably want to delete
that scheme for the test target,
and instead add the test target to
the test action of another scheme
that you want to run the tests with.
If you have a lot of
targets in your workspace,
you may see that the scheme
pop-up is pretty full,
lots of stuff in there.
You don't necessarily
have to keep them all.
For example,
if you have an application target
that links against a framework target,
Xcode will have given you a scheme for
both the framework and the application.
But maybe you never need to build
the framework just by itself.
In that case,
you can delete the scheme for the
framework target and just keep the
one for the application target.
Whenever you build the
application scheme,
it'll automatically build the framework
too because of that target dependency.
You can manage your schemes by going
to the Scheme pop-up and choosing the
Manage Schemes option from the menu.
This brings down the
Manage Schemes sheet,
which shows you all the schemes in the
workspace and lets you create new ones,
delete them, and configure them.
First of all, you'll notice that there's
an "Auto Create Schemes"
checkbox in the upper left.
Most of you want to leave this on,
but if you turn it off,
Xcode will never automatically
create schemes for this workspace.
This setting is actually shared
among all users of the workspace.
This is useful if you've got a large,
complicated workspace,
and you've specifically authored some
complicated schemes that you want
to share with all your teammates.
You don't want new teammates
opening the workspace and getting
all these auto-created schemes,
one for each target.
Instead,
you want your teammates to use the shared
schemes that you've carefully authored.
So if you turn this off,
nobody will get the auto-created schemes,
and it'll be easy for them
to just work with the shared
schemes that you've created,
or create new schemes themselves
when they actually need them.
The "Autocreate Schemes Now" button
does let you trigger autocreation
if you have this off and want
to autocreate schemes after all,
but it also serves
another important purpose.
If Xcode autocreates a scheme
for you and you delete it,
Xcode will remember that you've
deleted that autocreated scheme
and won't recreate it for you.
And that prevents you from having to play
whack-a-mole with autocreated schemes
every time you open up a workspace.
Now, if you've deleted some
autocreated schemes,
but you decide, "Hey, actually,
I want to get those autocreated schemes
back," if you press this button,
Xcode will actually autocreate schemes
for every target in the workspace
that doesn't already have a scheme,
even including targets which
it had autocreated schemes in
the past for that you deleted.
It can be kind of useful.
Now, you may find when working with
shared schemes that some of your
teammates have set up some schemes
that you don't really care about.
They're just for their
use or shared among them,
and you don't want them
cluttering up your scheme popup.
If you uncheck the show
checkbox on the left,
you can hide those schemes for you so
they don't show up in the scheme popup,
but that won't affect anyone else.
That's a per user setting.
Since you can't delete
the shared schemes,
or it would delete them for
everyone since they're shared,
You just hide them for you.
If you want to share a scheme,
you just check the Shared
checkbox on the right.
And that will move the scheme file
to the shared data location so that
everybody who's using your project in
Workspace can use that scheme together.
Now, one thing you may find often
when working with shared schemes
is you want to add some argument
temporarily for debugging purposes.
But if you edit that shared scheme,
it'll show up for everybody
because that scheme is shared.
And you don't want to accidentally
check that in and share your
temporary argument with everyone.
The workflow we recommend in that
case is to select the scheme here,
choose Duplicate from the gear menu,
and create your own personal
one-off copy of the scheme.
You can tweak that to your
heart's content and then delete
it when you're done with it.
And next time you need
to do the same thing,
just duplicate a new copy of the
scheme and tweak it as needed.
You'll notice that there's
a containers pop-up here,
and that controls exactly
where your scheme is stored.
Every scheme is stored inside
a project or workspace bundle,
and you can choose which project or
workspace it's stored in by changing
that in the container pop-up.
If you've got a scheme that you want
all users of your project to see,
you should store it in that project.
But if you've got a scheme that
you only want to use when you're
working in a particular workspace,
you can just store it in that workspace.
Let's talk a little bit more about
exactly where your schemes go.
Inside your project or workspace bundle,
Xcode puts an XC user data folder,
which contains all your per user data,
and an XC shared data folder,
which contains your shared data.
Inside the XC shared data
folder is an XC schemes folder,
and inside that is all of
your shared schemes that are
in this project or workspace.
In your XE User Data folder,
you'll see that there's a
separate folder for every user
of this project or workspace,
named after that user's username.
Inside your Username folder,
there's an XE Schemes folder again,
and inside that,
there's both all your per-user schemes
and a Scheme Management Property List.
The Scheme
Management Property List stores
information for you about which
schemes you've chosen to hide,
what order you want the
schemes to show up in,
and you can change that by
dragging them around in the
Schemes Management Per User,
and what schemes Xcode has
auto-created for you in the past
so it knows not to auto-create them
for you again after you delete them.
Now, when working with schemes,
you probably want to check them in.
When you bring up the commit sheet,
you'll see this hierarchy I just
showed you represented on the left.
Shared schemes,
you usually want to check in to
share them with your coworkers.
You may want to check in your
personal schemes and your
scheme management property list,
too,
just so that you don't lose that data.
By default, unlike source files,
when you create a scheme,
it's not added to your source control.
So if you want to add a new scheme,
you just need to check
the checkbox on the left,
and Xcode will commit it to your source
control the next time you commit,
or when you close the
sheet is when you commit.
So that's about all there is to
managing your schemes effectively.
To close out today's presentation,
I'd like to invite Chris back up
to show you what you can do with
the power of custom scheme actions.
Thanks, Rick.
So we've seen what you can do with
schemes and scheme actions so far,
but what if you want to do something
before or after one of those actions?
Well,
we have the ability in Xcode 4 to let
you create custom pre- and post-actions
for all of the scheme actions,
as well as for building.
Now, this is really simple to do.
All you need to do is open the scheme
editor and then click that disclosure
triangle next to the action you want
to add a pre- or post-action to.
And you'll see that there's
a section for pre-actions and
a section for post-actions,
and if you select one of them,
You'll get a nice blank canvas.
Now, we allow you to create
run script scheme actions,
which are very similar to run script
build phases as Rick already described.
And these actions not only can
run arbitrary shell scripts,
or any kind of script really,
because you can specify which
scripting engine to use,
but they can also be supplied
with information from a
target that's in the scheme,
just like you have for arguments
and environment variables.
So it'll be supplied with an environment
containing all of the build settings
for whatever target you select.
It'll also be passed some other
information about the action and
about the workspace using the
environment variables as well.
Now, if you want to send some
email after a build is done,
say because you've archived something,
you've had a script uploaded to a server,
and now you want to
tell your team about it,
we also have a post
action or a pre-action,
if you really want to send
email before an archive,
that lets you specify the
name and the subject and the
content of an email to send,
and it'll just use mail.app
to send that email.
Now, why would you use a custom scheme
action instead of a run script build
phase like Rick described earlier?
Well, the key thing to remember is
that build phases really help
produce a product from a target.
So if something is
inherent to your product,
don't do it in a scheme action,
do it in a run script build phase.
Conversely, a custom scheme action really
helps you prepare for or follow
up on the rest of the action.
So for example,
producing an archive and then having
it uploaded to a server automatically.
We've got a handy table here
to just give you some examples.
So if you're generating
art assets for your game,
you'll want to do that in a run script
build phase because chances are those art
assets are really inherent to your game.
You don't want them to be a side
effect of whatever action the
user chose while using the IDE.
On the other hand,
if you need to prepare some
test data for your unit tests,
that's probably something you
want to do in a pre-action script.
And similarly, as I've been saying,
uploading an archive to a server
is probably something you want
to do in a post-action script.
Now let's see these in action.
Let's say I'm working on
my Zip browser application,
and I want to distribute it to testers.
Of course, the way I'm going to prepare
it for distribution is to
use the archive action,
but I don't want to
constantly use the IDE,
produce an archive,
extract an application from it,
upload that to a server manually.
So instead,
I'm going to go to Edit Scheme
and disclose my archive action,
and I'm just going to delete
something quickly here.
And I will add a new run
script action because I'd
like to automate this process.
Now because I'm actually going to be
archiving the Zip browser application,
I'm going to choose to provide build
settings as environment variables from
the Zip browser application target.
And rather than type a bunch
of shell script at you,
I have a text snippet here with some
script that I'm just going to paste in.
And let me paste that in.
So you can see here on
the very first line,
what I'm doing is invoking
a command on an environment
variable called workspace_path.
This is passed to your
run_script scheme actions,
and it contains the path to
the workspace file itself.
So what I'm doing is I'm
getting the directory that
contains the workspace file,
and then I'm running some other shell
scripts from within that directory.
And the reason I'm doing this is so
I don't have to hard code the directory
that those scripts are in on my system.
I don't need to install them
in user_local_bin or any
other hard-coded location.
They can just live with my workspace.
And my first script just
generates a disk image.
And one of the arguments I'm passing
to it is the contents of my archive.
Specifically,
I'm using the archive product's
path environment variable,
which is also supplied
to the run script action.
And that points into the content of
the products directory of the archive,
which is what contains an
applications directory,
which will contain my Zip browser app.
And after I've generated a disk image,
I have a script that simulates
uploading it to a server.
And rather than actually
uploading it to a server,
it's just going to copy it
to a directory and then open
that directory in the finder.
So I'm going to click
OK to add this script.
But instead of invoking
archive from the IDE,
I think I really want to make sure this
is something that can be automated.
If I'm producing builds nightly
or continuously on a server,
I'm not going to want to just send
things to the tester from the IDE.
I'm going to want that
to do it automatically.
So, I'm going to switch to the terminal.
I'm just going to push D into my
directory here with my source code.
And I can see that I have
my workspace in here.
And now I'm just going to
use the Xcode build command.
And this command now has
workspace and scheme arguments.
So I'm going to specify a zip browser,
.xc workspace for the workspace argument.
I'm going to specify scheme zip
browser for the scheme argument to
tell it to build that scheme in that
workspace and build all of the targets,
no matter what projects they're in,
for that scheme.
And I'm going to, instead of just telling
Xcode build to build,
I'm going to tell it to do
the new command archive.
And that's going to generate my archive
and then perform my post archive actions.
And we can see Xcode build is busy here.
And now it's paused a little bit,
and that means it's
generating my disk image.
It's created my disk image and opened
the location containing it in the finder,
just as my second script does.
Now if I double-click my
Zip Browser disk image,
and it mounts, I can see that it has my
applications directory in it,
and that has my Zip Browser
application ready for my testers.
So now let's return to slides.
Rick Ballard, Chris Hanson
And if you'd like more
information about Xcode 4,
the person to get in touch with
is our developer evangelist,
our developer tools evangelist,
Mike Jurowicz.
We also have a ton of great
documentation in the Xcode 4
User Guide at developer.apple.com
and on your systems when you install
the latest documentation sets.
And if you have questions,
in addition to the labs,
we have the Apple Developer Forums.
They're a great resource where
developers can help developers,
and we're also on there.
We have a bunch of related
sessions this week.
Some have already happened,
and some are still coming up.
So, go forth,
and I hope your schemes come to fruition.